Companies today need to collect, store,
and analyze the data they've collected over the years at a massive scale.
Storage services in the cloud provide a place for companies to store data providing
several benefits like durability, availability, and scalability.
Durability guarantees that you will not lose the data that you upload to the cloud.
High durability gives you the peace of mind that your data will be there in the future.
Availability addresses how quickly you can access your data.
High availability provides fast and reliable access to the data you stored in the cloud.
Scalability allows applications running in
your environment to always meet demand seamlessly.
By adding or removing the resources
necessary to maintain steady-state and fast response times.
There are three types of scaling.
Vertical scaling, horizontal scaling, and diagonal scaling.
Vertical scaling or scaling up is where you modify your server to meet demands.
An example of this would be adding more memory or capacity to a single server.
Horizontal scaling or scaling out is where you add or remove servers to meet demands.
You may start out with two servers and end up with six servers to support demand.
Diagonals scaling is a combination of
horizontal and vertical scaling and offers maximum flexibility.